docs(lez): Extensions section with admin-authority and extension-library guides (#355)
status-im/ift-docs: docs/lez/extensions/freeze-authority.md

- **Splice-only writes.** Freeze operations write only the 33 byte window (32 byte slot plus the frozen flag), your neighbouring fields survive every toggle and transfer.
- **Offsets never appear in a transaction.** They compile into the program as literals, and the IDL carries no offset arguments.

The library repository ships `freeze-authority-sample-embedded` with the full layout, adjacent-window tests, and a committed dry-run walkthrough.

## Verify your integration

After building your program, check that the freeze instructions appear in the IDL:

```bash
spel generate-idl path/to/your/program/src/main.rs | jq '.instructions[].name'
```

The `spel` binary must be built from the same framework revision your `Cargo.toml` pins. A CLI built without the extension scanner omits every extension instruction from this output without reporting an error.

Expected output includes:

```
"admin_initialize"
"admin_transfer"
"admin_renounce"
"freeze_initialize"
"freeze_program"
"freeze_program_release"
"freeze_authority_transfer"

> "freeze_authority_renounce"

Reviewer: **The four freeze instructions come out in a different order than this block shows.**

Built the auto-mode consumer from this page and ran the command directly above:

```
$ spel generate-idl src/main.rs | jq '.instructions[].name'
...
"freeze_initialize"
"freeze_authority_transfer"
"freeze_authority_renounce"
"freeze_program"
"freeze_program_release"
"freeze_account"
"freeze_account_release"
```

`freeze_authority_transfer` / `freeze_authority_renounce` come before `freeze_program` / `freeze_program_release`, not after. The CLI's own subcommand listing agrees, so this is the dispatcher order rather than a `jq` artefact.

Everything else in this block is right, and I checked it beyond the names: all seven freeze instructions plus the three admin ones are present, and the exemption story in the table above holds up in the account sets — `transfer` is auto-gated (`freeze_config, freeze_account, balance, caller`), `balance_of` carrying `#[freeze_exempt]` is not (`balance`), and the three `admin_*` instructions carry no freeze accounts at all, which is the L347 carve-out. Embedded mode drops `admin_initialize` and `freeze_initialize` as L335 says, and `freeze_authority_renounce` really does go from 3 accounts to 2 (L304).

Since this page presents the block as command output, and L339 of the author guide makes the point that this ordering *is* the ABI, it's worth matching. (The table at L110-118 reads fine as-is — it's grouped by topic, not claiming to be output.)

```suggestion
"freeze_authority_transfer"
"freeze_authority_renounce"
"freeze_program"
"freeze_program_release"
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

Author: Applied, dispatcher order.

`freeze-authority` depends on `admin-authority`. The admin governs the freeze authority slot; the freeze authority governs the frozen flags. See [Gate program instructions with admin-authority](admin-authority.md) for the admin layer.

## When to use it

Pick `freeze-authority` when your program needs:

- An emergency circuit breaker for incident response (`freeze` everything until the team can investigate).
- A blocklist for sanctioned or compromised accounts (`block` specific `AccountId`s while the rest of the program keeps running).

> - Both layered — global pause plus per-account blocks for graduated response.

Reviewer: `Google.EmDash` ("Don't put a space before or after a dash") is an error-level rule and fires 11 times on this branch, 9 of them on this page. Notably `admin-authority.md` has none — it uses commas for the same asides — so this page is the one drifting from the style the section already established.

```suggestion
- Both layered, global pause plus per-account blocks for graduated response.
```

Remaining occurrences of the spaced ` — `: `freeze-authority.md` lines 34, 126, 142, 143, 196, 247, 354, 356, and `build-a-spel-extension-library.md` lines 224, 280.

spel --idl program-idl.json --program <program-id> -- \
    freeze-program-release --caller <freeze-authority-account-id>
```

Both require the current freeze authority to sign.

## Freeze and unfreeze a specific account

```bash
# Block account X from interacting with this program.
spel --idl program-idl.json --program <program-id> -- \
    freeze-account --caller <freeze-authority-account-id> --target <account-id-X-hex>

# Restore X's access.
spel --idl program-idl.json --program <program-id> -- \
    freeze-account-release --caller <freeze-authority-account-id> --target <account-id-X-hex>
```

`target` is a raw 32 byte argument, pass the account id as 64 hex characters, not base58.

When account X is frozen, any instruction in your program that's auto-gated or carries `#[require_not_frozen]` rejects when X is the signer. Other accounts are unaffected. Per-account state survives the program-wide frozen flag toggling, the two layers are independent. Releasing a target that is not currently frozen rejects with `account is not frozen`, so a release cannot silently create marker state for untouched accounts.

## Transfer freeze authority to another party

> `freeze_authority_transfer` requires the admin to sign. It takes a `FreezeCandidate` describing the new holder, the same type as `AdminCandidate` (both alias the shared `AuthorityCandidate`), paired with a `new_account` that carries the chain-state evidence:

Reviewer: **`the same type` is not true for the dependency set this page tells you to use, and the previous wording (`the same shape`) was correct.**

This changed in `1a7e87e2` alongside the `AdminCandidate` alias fix on the admin page. The alias fix itself is right, but it doesn't carry over to this page, because a consumer that follows the L46-54 dependency block ends up with **two** copies of `spel-authority`:

```
spel-authority 0.1.0 (git+https://github.com/mmlado/spel-authority.git?rev=a490c765...)   # via admin-authority
spel-authority 0.1.0 (git+https://github.com/mmlado/spel-authority.git?tag=v0.1.0)        # via freeze-authority
```

`admin-authority` pins it by `rev`, `freeze-authority` pins it by `tag` — the same reference-kind trap this page already warns about for `spel-framework` on L56, just one layer down. So the two aliases resolve to two different types. I asked rustc directly, in a consumer built exactly as this page describes:

```rust
fn same_type(x: admin_authority::AdminCandidate) -> freeze_authority::FreezeCandidate { x }
```

```
error[E0308]: mismatched types
   |     ^ expected `spel_authority::AuthorityCandidate`, found a different `spel_authority::AuthorityCandidate`
note: there are multiple different versions of crate `spel_authority` in the dependency graph
```

Nothing else breaks — both consumers build, and all 10 instructions come out of the IDL correctly — so this is purely a wrong statement in the prose rather than a broken page. But it's the kind of claim a reader will lean on to write a shared helper across both roles, and the error they'd get is exactly the confusing one the page warns about elsewhere.

```suggestion
`freeze_authority_transfer` requires the admin to sign. It takes a `FreezeCandidate` describing the new holder, the same shape as `AdminCandidate` (each is an alias for the shared `AuthorityCandidate`), paired with a `new_account` that carries the chain-state evidence. The two are not interchangeable in your own code: `admin-authority` pins `spel-authority` by `rev` and `freeze-authority` pins it by `tag`, so a consumer depending on both gets two copies of that crate and two distinct `AuthorityCandidate` types.
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

Author: You are right. Rather than reverting the wording I removed the reason it was false. The rev against tag split was a bug in the libraries, not a fact to document: admin-authority v0.1.2 pins spel-authority by the same v0.1.0 tag freeze-authority uses, and freeze-authority v0.1.2 moves its admin pin to match. Your probe should compile now, fn same_type(x: AdminCandidate) -> FreezeCandidate { x } passes in a dual consumer with one spel-authority in the lockfile. The page says same type again because it is one type, and both dependency blocks pin the v0.1.2 tags.

```rust
pub enum FreezeCandidate {
    /// The new freeze authority is a keyholder. Validated by checking that
    /// the new account co-signed the transaction.
    Signer,
    /// The new freeze authority is a program-owned PDA. Validated by deriving
    /// the address from (program_id, seed) and confirming the PDA exists on chain.
    Pda { program_id: ProgramId, seed: [u8; 32] },
}
```

The slot can also be transferred from a Renounced (vacant) state, so admins can rotate the role with or without an interim vacancy:

```bash
spel --idl program-idl.json --program <program-id> -- \
    freeze-authority-transfer \
    --caller <admin-account-id> \
    --new-account <new-freeze-authority-account-id> \
    --candidate Signer
```

> A `Signer` candidate is validated on chain by checking that the new holder co-signed the transaction, and the wallet only collects signatures for declared signer accounts. Collect the new holder's signature with the multi-signature exchange flow: export the partial transaction with the candidate named as a co-signer (`--export handover.json --co-signer <new-holder-account-id-hex>`), send the file to the candidate to run `spel sign`, then submit it. The single command above builds and submits directly, and the sequencer drops it unless the new holder's signature is attached.

Reviewer: **Blocker — same as `admin-authority.md` line 188: `--export`, `--co-signer` and `spel sign` do not exist in the pinned CLI.**

I built the CLI from `f7aa464` (the revision this page's dependency snippet pins) and ran the documented flow. The flags are not merely unimplemented, they are silently ignored: the command produced no `handover.json` and went straight to the submit path, behaving identically to the same command with the flags removed. `strings` on the binary finds `co-signer` and `--export` zero times, and there is no `sign` subcommand in `spel-cli` at that revision.

Everything else in this section verified fine — `freeze-authority-transfer --caller --new-account --candidate` is exactly the CLI's shape, and `FreezeCandidate`'s two variants match the library. Suggested rewrite keeping the on-chain semantics and dropping the interface that is not there:

```suggestion
A `Signer` candidate is validated on chain by checking that the new holder co-signed the transaction, and the wallet only collects signatures for declared signer accounts. The `spel` CLI at the pinned revision has no multi-signature exchange flow: the single command above builds and submits with the caller's signature only, and the sequencer drops it unless the new holder's signature is attached. Collecting that second signature is not yet possible from `spel` itself.
```
